# The Missing Course

A [University of Montana](https://umt.edu) course covering helpful software
development tools and techniques based on [The Missing
Semester](https://missing.csail.mit.edu).

## Schedule

The [topics/](topics/) directory contains the materials we will cover. It is
organized into topics and each topic will generally take about a week. Keep in
mind, however, that many topics will build on one another. This means that you
really don't want to fall behind. If you miss a week, be sure to catch up.

  1. [Shell Overview](topics/01-shell-overview/)
  1. [Shell Scripting](topics/02-shell-scripting/)
  1. [Shell Tools](topics/03-shell-tools/)
  1. [Editors](topics/04-editors/)

## Instruction

Lectures will be delivered electronically due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Office
hours will be held virtually in an on-demand fashion. Email the instructor to
schedule an appointment. The instructor is also available on Microsoft Teams
(see below).

Assuming no technology issues, lectures will be recorded and posted on the
course web site and/or Moodle.

### Lecture Videos

Below you'll find videos of each lecture (assuming nothing went wrong with the
recording). These are on a best-effort basis, so some may be missing.

  - [January 11](https://youtu.be/ankQNKqupWI) - the shell
  - [January 13](https://youtu.be/voc3sfv-SDw) - more shell and starting on
    shell scripting
  - [January 15](https://youtu.be/5DhFmcJJe-Y) - shell scripting

There is also a playlist with all lecture videos:
<https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLq7UdDyGlli64bM1rewiDHtxxWMfk-ytu>.

## Assignments

Students will submit each assignment by creating a "pull request" (PR) against
this GitHub repository. Don't worry, we'll learn what that means before anything
is due. This pattern will simulate a standard software development workflow.
You can think of it as one big, semester-long group project.

Assignments can be found in their respective [topics/](topics/) directory.

## Reading

There isn't a textbook, but there are a couple books that students might find
informative. These are listed below. This list will likely be updated as the
semester progresses.

  - [Classic Shell Scripting](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/classic-shell-scripting/0596005954/)
  - [A Philosophy of Software Design](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39996759-a-philosophy-of-software-design)

## Prerequisites

### Linux on Windows

It is possible to install a Linux distribution under Windows 10 using WSL
(Windows Subsystem for Linux). This will be required for some of the topics we
study during this course. See the link below for instructions.

  - <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10>

## Grading

Assignments will be evaluated automatically or by the instructor and grades will
be posted on the course's Moodle page for confidentiality.

## Instructor

[George Lesica](https://lesica.com) is a Senior Software Scientist in the
[Wheeler Lab](https://wheelerlab.org) at the University of Montana and a
freelance software development and technology consultant.

  - Email: <george.lesica@umontana.edu>
  - Microsoft Teams: George Lesica

